[FLINK-23186][docs] Improve installation page (#16414)
apache/flink: docs/content/docs/try-flink/local_installation.md

---
title: 'First steps'
weight: 1
type: docs
aliases:

>   - /try-flink/first_steps.html

Reviewer: Please revert. The aliases are redirects from past locations of this page. They should never be changed, just updated if we want to move or rename this page in the future.

Author: Yes, I had wanted to rename the whole file but then just did half the steps

{{< /hint >}}

Flink runs on all UNIX-like environments, i.e. Linux, Mac OS X, and Cygwin (for Windows). You need 
to have __Java 8 or 11__ installed. To check the Java version installed, type in your terminal: 

```bash
$ java -version
```

Next, [download the latest binary release](https://flink.apache.org/downloads.html) of Flink, 
then extract the archive: 

```bash
$ tar -xzf flink-*.tgz
```

## Browsing the project directory

Navigate to the extracted directory and list the contents by issuing:

```bash
$ cd flink-* && ls -l
```

You should see something like:

![project directory](projectdirectory.png)

For now, you may want to note that:
- __bin/__ directory contains the `flink` binary as well as several bash scripts that manage various jobs and tasks
- __conf/__ directory contains configuration files, including `flink-conf.yaml`
- __examples/__ directory contains sample applications that can be used as is with Flink

## Starting and stopping a local cluster

To start a local cluster, run the bash script that comes with Flink:

```bash
$ ./bin/start-cluster.sh
```

You should see an output like this:

> ![output](output.png)

Author: @sjwiesman The images don't seem to be rendering for me.  Does it work for you?

Reviewer: You caught me, I didn't build it locally 😅 

The images should be under `static/fig`. There is a subfolder for `learn-flink`. Everything in the 'static' folder is put at the root of the URL when building. The image path will then be:

```raw
![output](/fig/learn-flink/installation/output.png)
```

```bash
$ cd flink-* && ls -l
```

You should see something like:

![project directory](projectdirectory.png)

For now, you may want to note that:
- __bin/__ directory contains the `flink` binary as well as several bash scripts that manage various jobs and tasks
- __conf/__ directory contains configuration files, including `flink-conf.yaml`
- __examples/__ directory contains sample applications that can be used as is with Flink

## Starting and stopping a local cluster

To start a local cluster, run the bash script that comes with Flink:

```bash
$ ./bin/start-cluster.sh
```

You should see an output like this:

![output](output.png)

Flink is now running as a background process. You can check its status with the following command:

```bash
$ ps aux | grep flink
```

You should be able to navigate to the web UI at [localhost:8081](http://localhost:8081) to view
the Flink dashboard and see that the cluster is up and running. 

To quickly stop the cluster and all running components, you can use the provided script:

```bash
$ ./bin/stop-cluster.sh
```

## Submitting a Flink job

Flink provides a CLI tool, __bin/flink__, that can run programs packaged as Java ARchives (JAR)

> and control their execution. Submitting a [job](https://ci.apache.org/projects/ﬂink/ﬂink-docs-stable/concepts/glossary.html#ﬂink-job) means uploading the job’s JAR ﬁle and related dependencies to the running Flink cluster

Reviewer: When cross-linking to other pages in the docs, please use `ref` syntax. Hugo will fail the build if the link is broken, it also ensures links are properly versioned. 

https://gohugo.io/content-management/cross-references/

```suggestion
and control their execution. Submitting a [job]({{< ref "docs/concepts/glossary" >}}#ﬂink-job) means uploading the job’s JAR ﬁle and related dependencies to the running Flink cluster
```

and executing it.

Flink releases come with example jobs, which you can ﬁnd in the __examples/__ folder.

To deploy the example word count job to the running cluster, issue the following command:

```bash
$ ./bin/flink run examples/streaming/WordCount.jar
```

You can verify the output by viewing the logs:

```bash
$ tail log/flink-*-taskexecutor-*.out
```

Sample output:

```bash
  (nymph,1)
  (in,3)
  (thy,1)
  (orisons,1)
  (be,4)
  (all,2)
  (my,1)
  (sins,1)
  (remember,1)
  (d,4)
```

Additionally, you can check Flink's [web UI](http://localhost:8081) to monitor the status of the cluster and running job.

You can view the data flow plan for the execution:

![data flow plan](dataflowplan.png)

Here for the job execution, Flink has two operators. The ﬁrst is the source operator which reads data from the
collection source. The second operator is the transformation operator which aggregates counts of words. Learn

> more about [DataStream operators](https://ci.apache.org/projects/ﬂink/ﬂink-docs-stable/dev/stream/operators/).

Reviewer: Please update to `ref` link syntax.

You can also look at the timeline of the job execution:

![data flow timeline](timeline.png)

> You have successfully ran a [Flink application](https://ci.apache.org/projects/ﬂink/ﬂink-docs-stable/concepts/glossary.html#ﬂink-application)! Feel free to select any other JAR archive from the __examples/__

Reviewer: Please update to `ref` link syntax.

folder or deploy your own job!

# Summary

In this guide, you downloaded Flink, explored the project directory, started and stopped a local cluster, and
submitted a sample Flink job!

> To learn more about Flink fundamentals, check out the [concepts](https://ci.apache.org/projects/ﬂink/ﬂink-docs-release-1.12/concepts/index.html) section. If you want to try something more hands-on, try one of the tutorials.

Reviewer: Please update to ref link syntax.

_________________________________

> [Want to contribute translation?](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/Flink+Translation+Specifications)

Reviewer: What do you think about putting this in the footer template so it's on every page automatically? 

See `docs/layouts/partials/docs/footer.html`
